# Effective Time Dilation with Decoherence

The time dilation factor is also influenced by decoherence. As coherence
diminishes, the effective time dilation factor is modified to:

ã_eff(r,t) = 1 / (sqrt(1 - â\^2) · exp(-ë(r,t)Ät))

This modification reflects the idea that as a pattern decoheres, the
effects of time dilation become more pronounced, leading to further
instability.

### 

Abstraction in Synchronism (introduced in section 4.11) involves
representing information from scales outside the Markov relevancy
horizon in forms meaningful to the chosen scale of analysis. Here, we
present a mathematical formulation of this concept.

* Scale-Dependent Information Function*

Let I(r, t, s) be the information content at position r, time t, and
scale s. We define a scale-dependent information function:

I(r, t, s) = ∫ K(r - r\', s) ñ(r\', t) dr\'

where ñ(r\', t) is the local intent density, and K(r - r\', s) is a
scale-dependent kernel function that determines how information from
different points in space contributes to the abstracted information at
scale s.

*Markov Relevancy Horizon*

We define the Markov Relevancy Horizon (MRH) as a function of scale:

MRH(s) = f(s, å)

where å is a threshold parameter determining the significance of
information contribution.

*Abstraction Operation*

The abstraction operation A can be defined as:

A\[I(r, t, s)\] = ∫\_{\|r\' - r\| \< MRH(s)} I(r\', t, s\') W(r - r\',
s, s\') dr\'

where s\' \< s, and W(r - r\', s, s\') is a weighting function that
determines how information from finer scales s\' contributes to the
abstracted information at scale s.

* Information Loss Metric*

We can quantify the information loss due to abstraction:

L(s, s\') = D\[I(r, t, s) \|\| A\[I(r, t, s\')\]\]

where D is an appropriate distance metric in the space of information
functions, such as Kullback-Leibler divergence.

*Optimal Abstraction*

The optimal abstraction level s\* for a given phenomenon can be
determined by minimizing the information loss while maintaining
computational feasibility:

s\* = arg min\_{s} {L(s, s_0) + ëC(s)}

where s_0 is the finest scale available, C(s) is a cost function
representing computational complexity at scale s, and ë is a Lagrange
multiplier balancing information preservation and computational
efficiency.

This framework provides a mathematical foundation for the concept of
abstraction in Synchronism, allowing for quantitative analysis of
information flow and representation across different scales of the
model.

### 

In Synchronism, intent is treated as a quantized property, allowing for
discrete levels of intent within each Planck cell. This quantization
simplifies the modeling of intent distribution and interaction across
the grid, making the complex dynamics of intent more manageable for
computational analysis. Refer to Section 4.3.3 for a discussion of
Intent Quantization.

Let I(r, t) represent the intent at position r and time t. The intent is
quantized into N discrete levels, where I(r, t) ∈ {0, 1, 2, \..., N -
1}. The quantization of intent is governed by a step function:

I_quant(r, t) = ⌊I(r, t) / ÄI⌋

where ÄI is the quantization interval, and ⌊x⌋ denotes the floor
function, which rounds down to the nearest integer.

*Impact on Intent Transfer:*

The quantization of intent directly impacts the rules governing intent
transfer between neighboring Planck cells. When intent is transferred,
it must respect the quantized levels:

ÄI_transfer(r, r\', t) = min(I_quant(r, t), (N - 1 - I_quant(r\', t)) /
2)

This equation ensures that the transfer of intent from cell r to r\' is
limited by both the available intent at r and the receiving capacity at
r\'.

### 

Intent saturation occurs when a Planck cell reaches its maximum
quantized intent level. Once saturated, a cell can no longer accept
additional intent, which has significant implications for the dynamics
of intent transfer and the formation of stable structures. Refer to
Section 4.3.3 for discussion of Intent Saturation.

The saturation threshold for a Planck cell is defined as:

I_sat = N - 1

where N is the number of quantized levels. When a cell reaches I_sat, it
becomes a barrier to further intent transfer:

I_transfer(r, t) = 0 if I_quant(r, t) = I_sat

*Formation of Stable Structures:*

Saturated cells tend to form clusters or patterns, where the intent is
localized and does not disperse. These clusters can be interpreted as
stable entities within the Synchronism framework, analogous to particles
in traditional physics. The formation of these entities can be modeled
using cellular automata or other discrete systems.

### 

This section explores advanced aspects of the universal field in
Synchronism, proposing mathematical formalisms for field dynamics,
quantum-classical transitions, and cosmological implications.