# Cosmic Microwave Background (CMB) Anomalies

**Observation:** Anomalies in the Cosmic Microwave Background, such as
the Cold Spot, suggest the presence of large-scale structures or
interactions that are not fully understood.

**Synchronism Interpretation:** If black holes and dark matter are
indeed linked through gravitational interactions, their influence on the
early universe could be responsible for these CMB anomalies. The
gravitational effects of these entities within the tension field might
have subtly shaped the CMB, leaving behind detectable imprints.

#### Missing Baryons Problem

**Observation:** There is a discrepancy between the predicted and
experienced amounts of baryonic matter in the universe, with some of it
potentially hidden in undetectable forms.

**Synchronism Interpretation:** Black holes could account for some of
this missing baryonic matter, particularly if they form from the
collapse of stars or other processes that convert regular matter into
compact, non-radiating entities. In Synchronism, these black holes would
still interact gravitationally, potentially providing clues to the
missing matter\'s whereabouts.

#### Synchronism as a Framework for Understanding

The Synchronism model offers a unified framework for interpreting the
gravitational interactions of black holes and dark matter as
manifestations of the universal tension field. By proposing that these
entities are part of a broader spectrum of gravitationally interacting
entities, Synchronism provides a new lens through which to understand
these cosmic phenomena. This perspective not only aligns with current
observations but also opens up new possibilities for refining our
understanding of the universe. Future research could focus on developing
specific predictions based on this model, testing them against
observational data, and further exploring the role of gravitational
interactions in shaping the cosmos.