# Contents

## 

Synchronism is a comprehensive model of reality that seeks to unify and
transcend existing belief systems, including religions and scientific
theories. It offers a perspective that aims to encompass all aspects of
existence, providing a framework for understanding the universe and its
phenomena.

Developed through a series of philosophical inquiries and thought
experiments, Synchronism attempts to bridge the gap between scientific
understanding and spiritual or metaphysical concepts.

In the Synchronism model, a key concept is that of \"Intent,\" which
serves as a reification of the abstract \"greater force\" proposed by
various belief systems. This reification allows for the quantification
and analysis of the underlying dynamics of reality. By representing the
fundamental driving force of the universe as measurable \"intent,\"
Synchronism provides a framework that bridges scientific, philosophical,
and spiritual perspectives, enabling a more unified approach to
understanding existence.

The model proposes a fundamental structure for the universe based on
discrete units of space and time, with a unique concept of \"intent\" as
the driving force behind all interactions and emergent phenomena. By
offering a new lens through which to view reality, Synchronism
challenges conventional thinking and invites a reevaluation of our
understanding of existence, consciousness, and the nature of the
universe itself.

Synchronism is inherently a single-observer model, meaning that all
phenomena are interpreted from the standpoint of a singular, unified
observer. This perspective simplifies the complexities associated with
multiple reference frames and provides a coherent narrative of intent
transfer and emergence. By assuming a single, uniform progression of
time across the universe, Synchronism aligns perception experienced at
varying fractal scales with the underlying mechanics of reality,
focusing on how intent flows and interacts within this unified
framework.

This approach contrasts with relativistic models, which allow for
multiple 'observers' with potentially conflicting perceptions of time
and space. In Synchronism, time and space are absolute within the single
observer\'s framework, providing a consistent reference for
understanding the universe\'s evolution. This singular viewpoint is
crucial for maintaining coherence within the model and ensuring that
emergent phenomena are uniformly interpretable.

The limitations of individual perspectives, as highlighted in the
parable of the blind men and the elephant, underscore the need for a
comprehensive model like Synchronism that strives for a holistic
understanding of reality. However, Synchronism acknowledges the
practical usefulness of limited-perspective analysis. This is addressed
with concepts like Markov Relevancy Horizon, Abstraction, Witness and
Experience as part of the Synchronism model.

For Synchronism to be a useful and relevant model, it is necessary to
introduce formal mathematical treatments for its key concepts. In order
to keep the core document as concise as possible, the proposed
mathematical formalism is introduced separately in Appendix A.

## 

The significance of perspective in understanding reality is illustrated
by the \"Six Blind Men and the Elephant\" analogy, an ancient parable
that highlights the limitations of individual perception and the
importance of holistic understanding.

In this story, six blind men encounter an elephant for the first time.
Each man touches a different part of the elephant and describes what he
believes the elephant to be based on his limited experience:

-   The man who feels the leg says the elephant is like a pillar

-   The one who touches the tail describes it as a rope

-   The man who feels the trunk thinks it\'s like a tree branch

-   The one who touches the ear believes it\'s like a hand fan

-   The man who feels the belly describes it as a wall

-   The one who touches the tusk thinks it\'s like a solid pipe

This analogy illustrates several key points:

-   Different witnesses may experience only parts of a whole, leading to
    incomplete or inaccurate conclusions.

-   Consensus doesn\'t necessarily lead to truth, as all the men might
    agree on certain aspects while still missing the full picture.

-   A comprehensive understanding requires both broadening one\'s
    perspective and gaining detailed knowledge.

Synchronism aims to provide a broader perspective that integrates
various viewpoints, allowing for a more complete understanding of
reality. It encourages stepping back to see the bigger picture while
also delving into the details of how the universe operates at its most
fundamental level.

However, the individual experience of each of the blind men with the
elephant is a sub-model of reality. While inherently incomplete, it may
still be both useful and adequate if the extent of interaction of the
man and the elephant is constrained enough to be fully accounted for by
the model. We therefore introduce formal concepts of Witness and
Experience, defined as interactions of an entity within its fractal
scale and levels of abstraction. Through these concepts Synchronism
provides a formal framework for choosing the optimal scale and
abstraction for analysis of sub-observations, as a way of limiting
complexity while including sufficient level of detail for the desired
level of accuracy.

Synchronism does not dismiss witness experience models as invalid.
Rather, it provides a perspective and a method for determining whether a
particular model or frame of reference is sufficient and optimal for the
analysis being contemplated, and adjusting the model for the task or
selecting a different one.

## 

Synchronism aligns with and expands upon the seven Hermetic principles,
which are derived from the teachings attributed to Hermes Trismegistus.
These principles form the basis of Hermetic philosophy and have
influenced various esoteric and mystical traditions. Synchronism builds
upon these principles, offering a more detailed and
scientifically-grounded explanation of their manifestation in the
universe.

The seven Hermetic principles and their relation to Synchronism are:

### 

-   Synchronism: The universe is modeled as a vast array of
    interconnected \"cells\" that contain and transfer \"intent,\" which
    can be seen as a form of mental energy or information. The model can
    also be viewed as a fundamental neural network, furthering the
    mentalism connection.

### 

-   Synchronism: The model proposes a fractal nature of reality, where
    patterns repeat at different scales, from the quantum to the cosmic.

### 

-   Synchronism: All phenomena are described as patterns of intent
    transfer, which can be seen as a form of vibration or oscillation at
    the most fundamental level.

### 

-   Synchronism: The concept of resonance and dissonance in the model
    reflects the principle of polarity, where entities can either
    reinforce or weaken each other\'s existence.

### 

-   Synchronism: The model describes the universe as evolving through
    discrete \"ticks\" of time, creating a rhythmic progression of
    states.

### 

-   Synchronism: The transfer of intent between cells and the resulting
    emergence of patterns and entities follows a causal chain, with each
    state informing the next.

### 

-   Synchronism: The model incorporates this principle through the
    concept of a fundamental duality within entities, similar to the
    structure of Generative Adversarial Networks (GANs). This duality
    consists of a generative (masculine) principle that proposes new
    patterns or actions, and a discriminative (feminine) principle that
    evaluates and refines these proposals. This emergent property is
    seen as necessary for an entity\'s persistence and evolution,
    allowing for adaptation while maintaining internal coherence. It\'s
    present in all living things, not just those traditionally
    considered conscious, and reflects ancient concepts like yin and
    yang. In terms of intent transfer, the generative principle explores
    new intent distribution patterns, while the discriminative principle
    evaluates these patterns against existing stable configurations.
    Interpretations of this principle could be potentially extended to
    non-living entities, perhaps down to quantum scale and up to
    galactic scale.

The generative-discriminative duality inherent in entities acts as a
catalyst for emergence and evolution. The generative principle, akin to
a creative force, constantly proposes new patterns and actions, pushing
the boundaries of an entity\'s existence. The discriminative principle,
acting as a discerning filter, evaluates these proposals against the
backdrop of existing stable configurations. This dynamic interplay
ensures that entities can adapt to their environment while maintaining
internal coherence. In biological organisms, this duality manifests as
the tension between mutation and natural selection. In social groups,
it\'s reflected in the balance between innovation and tradition. The
generative-discriminative duality, therefore, is not just a theoretical
construct but a fundamental principle driving the complex dance of
emergence and evolution across all scales of existence.

The alignment of Synchronism with the Hermetic principles lays a
philosophical foundation for the model\'s fundamental concepts. The
following sections will delve into these concepts, demonstrating how
they provide a mechanistic explanation for the Hermetic principles\'
manifestations in the universe.

## 

### 

Synchronism proposes that the universe can be modeled as an infinite
three-dimensional grid of discrete cells. This concept provides a
fundamental structure for understanding the nature of space and the
interactions that occur within it.

Key aspects of this grid model include:

-   Each cell in the grid is the size of a Planck length (approximately
    1.616 × 10\^-35 meters) in each dimension. The Planck length is
    theorized to be the smallest meaningful measurement of distance in
    the universe.

-   The grid extends infinitely in all directions, encompassing the
    entire universe.

-   Each cell contains a quantized amount of \"intent,\" which can be
    thought of as a fundamental property or energy that drives all
    interactions and phenomena in the universe.

-   The amount of intent in each cell is limited by a saturation
    maximum, beyond which no more intent can be added to that cell.

This grid model provides a discrete, quantized structure for the
universe, allowing for the precise description of locations,
interactions, and the transfer of intent between adjacent cells.

### 

In the Synchronism model, time is not merely a backdrop or a dimension
in which events unfold but is the fundamental substrate of reality
itself. Time progresses as a series of discrete moments or \"ticks,\"
each representing the transition of the universe from one state to the
next. This quantization of time provides not only a framework for
understanding how the universe evolves but also suggests that time is
the medium through which all phenomena are manifested, with each tick
bringing forth a new slice of reality.

This perspective emphasizes that time is the driving force behind all
existence, with every entity and event being a ripple within this time
substrate. The cessation of time, therefore, implies a cessation of all
existence, as nothing can manifest without the passage of time. Time is
the universal \"Mind\" that governs and sustains the universe\'s
evolution, aligning with the Hermetic principle that \"The All is
Mind.\"Key aspects of this time model include:

-   Time advances in discrete units called \"ticks,\" each corresponding
    to Planck time (approximately 5.39 × 10\^-44 seconds). Planck time
    is theorized to be the smallest meaningful measurement of time in
    the universe.

-   The state of the entire universe at any given tick is referred to as
    a \"slice.\" Each slice represents a complete snapshot of the intent
    distribution across all cells in the universe at that moment.

-   Each slice is fixed and unchanging, representing a static state of
    the universe.

-   The state of each slice is informed by the intent distributions of
    all preceding states, establishing a causal chain throughout the
    history of the universe.

This discrete time model allows for a precise description of how the
universe evolves from one state to the next, with each tick representing
a fundamental unit of change.

### 

##### 4.3.1 Intent as Reification of the Greater Force

In Synchronism, the concept of \"intent\" serves as a reification of the
abstract \"greater force\" that various belief systems posit as the
underlying driver of reality. Reification is the process of assigning a
concrete representation to an abstract concept, allowing for more
tangible analysis and understanding.

##### Understanding Reification: The Money Analogy

To better grasp the concept of reification, consider the relationship
between money and value:

-   Value is an abstract concept that can be difficult to quantify or
    transfer directly.

-   Money serves as a reification of value, providing a concrete way to
    measure, quantify, and transfer value.

-   While money represents value, it is not value itself; rather, it\'s
    a tool that allows us to work with the concept of value in practical
    ways.

Similarly, in Synchronism:

-   The \"greater force\" (analogous to value) is an abstract concept
    that various belief systems attempt to describe.

-   Intent (analogous to money) serves as a concrete representation of
    this force, allowing us to model and analyze it.

-   Like money, intent is not the force itself, but a tool that enables
    us to work with and understand this fundamental aspect of reality.

The concept of \"intent\" in Synchronism serves as a bridge between the
abstract and the concrete. It reifies the elusive \"greater force\"
often alluded to in various belief systems, providing a tangible
framework for its exploration. While the \"greater force\" remains a
philosophical or theological concept, \"intent\" allows us to model,
measure, and analyze its manifestations within the universe. This
reification, however, is not without its caveats. It\'s essential to
remember that \"intent\" is a representation, a tool for understanding,
not the force itself. The relationship between \"intent\" and the
underlying force it signifies might be intricate and multifaceted,
warranting further philosophical and scientific inquiry.

##### Comparison with Other Systems

-   Hermeticism: Intent can be seen as a quantifiable aspect of \"The
    All\" or the universal mind.

-   Science: Intent is analogous to fields in physics, but more
    fundamental and unified.

-   Religion: Intent represents a measurable manifestation of divine
    will or cosmic order.

##### Properties of Intent

-   Quantifiable: Intent can be measured and assigned numerical values
    within each cell of the Synchronism grid.

-   Transferable: It can move between cells, following the rules of
    intent transfer.

-   Conserved: The total amount of intent in the universe remains
    constant, similar to conservation laws in physics.

##### Advantages of Reification

By reifying the abstract concept of a greater force into the measurable
quantity of intent, Synchronism provides:

-   A framework for mathematical modeling of abstract concepts.

-   A common language for discussing phenomena across different scales
    and domains.

-   The potential for prediction and manipulation of reality based on
    intent dynamics.

##### Limitations and Considerations

It\'s important to note that, like any reification, intent is not the
force itself but a representation. The relationship between intent and
the underlying force it represents may be complex and not always direct.
This concept helps position Synchronism as a bridge between scientific
and spiritual/philosophical worldviews, providing a framework for
translating abstract concepts into concrete, analyzable phenomena.

The relationship between \"intent\" and the underlying force it
signifies is intricate and multifaceted, paralleling the relationship
between energy and fields in physics. Just as energy manifests in
different forms---such as kinetic, potential, or thermal---intent in
Synchronism can manifest in various ways, depending on the context. For
example, in biological systems, intent might be analogous to the drive
or motivation behind an organism\'s actions, whereas in physical
systems, it could represent the potential for change or interaction.

This reification of intent allows for the translation of abstract
philosophical or spiritual concepts into quantifiable metrics that can
be modeled and analyzed. However, it is crucial to recognize that intent
is a tool for understanding the underlying dynamics of the universe, not
a direct representation of the force itself. The concept invites further
exploration into how different forms of intent interact and contribute
to the emergent patterns experienced in reality.

##### 4.3.2 Intent Transfer Mechanics

The concept of intent transfer is central to the Synchronism model,
describing how information or energy moves between cells and how this
movement leads to the emergence of patterns and phenomena in the
universe.

Key aspects of intent transfer and tension include:

-   Intent transfers between adjacent cells based on their relative
    intent levels. Cells with higher levels of intent tend to transfer
    intent to cells with lower levels.

-   The transfer of intent follows simple local rules, which govern how
    much intent can move between cells in a single tick.

-   Each cell \"feels\" the intent levels of its neighboring cells,
    creating a tensor of intent transfer potential. This potential is
    referred to as \"tension.\"

-   Tension represents the likelihood and direction of intent transfer
    in the next tick, serving as a predictor of how the state of the
    universe will evolve.

The concepts of intent transfer and tension provide a mechanism for
understanding how information and energy flow through the universe,
leading to the emergence of complex structures and phenomena.

While intent transfer remains fundamental at the quantum level,
Synchronism allows us to abstract this concept at higher fractal scales.
The collective behavior of intent within an entity\'s Markov blanket
becomes the focus, enabling us to analyze its interactions, internal
dynamics, and overall coherence without needing to track every
individual intent transfer. This abstraction maintains the core
principles of Synchronism while providing a more manageable and
meaningful approach to studying complex systems. (See also Section 4.11)

For a proposed mathematical treatment of Intent Transfer and Pattern
Stability, refer to Appendix A.1.

##### 4.3.3 Intent Quantization and Saturation

To facilitate practical understanding and simulation of Synchronism, we
propose two key concepts: intent quantization and saturation.