# .9 Mathematical Treatment of Superconductivity in Synchronism

A Synchronism perspective on superconductivity is introduced in Section
5.15 of the main text. Here we explore a possible mathematical treatment
of superconductivity and its aspects.

*Indifference Function*

We define an indifference function I(r, t, T) that quantifies the degree
of indifference between material and electron patterns:

I(r, t, T) = exp(-\|øm(r, t, T) - øe(r, t)\|\^2 / ó\^2)

where:

\- øm(r, t, T) is the intent pattern of the material at position r, time
t, and temperature T

\- øe(r, t) is the electron intent pattern

\- ó is a parameter determining the sensitivity of indifference

*Temperature Dependence*

The temperature dependence of the material\'s intent pattern can be
modeled as:

øm(r, t, T) = øm0(r, t) + A(T) · sin(ùT · t)

where:

\- øm0(r, t) is the base intent pattern of the material

\- A(T) is the amplitude of thermal oscillations, increasing with
temperature

\- ùT is the frequency of thermal oscillations

*Critical Temperature*

The critical temperature Tc is defined as the point where the
indifference function drops below a threshold value è:

I(r, t, Tc) = è

*Saturation Limit*

The saturation of indifference can be modeled using a logistic function:

S(ñe) = Smax / (1 + exp(-k(ñe - ñ0)))

where:

\- ñe is the electron pattern density

\- Smax is the maximum saturation level

\- k is the steepness of the saturation curve

\- ñ0 is the midpoint of the saturation curve

*Superconducting Order Parameter*

We can define a superconducting order parameter Ö(r, t, T) as:

Ö(r, t, T) = I(r, t, T) · S(ñe)

This order parameter combines the indifference function and saturation
effects, providing a comprehensive description of the superconducting
state.

*Coherence Length*

The coherence length î, which describes the spatial extent of the
superconducting state, can be related to the gradient of the order
parameter:

î\^2 = \|Ö\|\^2 / \|∇Ö\|\^2

*Meissner Effect*

The expulsion of magnetic fields (Meissner effect) can be modeled by
introducing a magnetic field dependence to the indifference function:

I(r, t, T, B) = exp(-\|øm(r, t, T) - øe(r, t)\|\^2 / ó\^2 - ë\|B\|\^2)

where ë is a coupling constant between the magnetic field B and the
indifference function.

These equations provide a mathematical framework for describing
superconductivity within the Synchronism model, capturing key phenomena
such as the critical temperature, saturation effects, and the Meissner
effect. This formalism can serve as a basis for further theoretical
development and potential experimental predictions.

### 

*Generalized Interaction Function*

We define a generalized interaction function Ã(ø1, ø2) between two
intent patterns ø1 and ø2:

Ã(ø1, ø2) = á·R(ø1, ø2) + â·D(ø1, ø2) + ã·I(ø1, ø2)

where:

\- R(ø1, ø2) is the resonance function

\- D(ø1, ø2) is the dissonance function

\- I(ø1, ø2) is the indifference function

\- á, â, ã are weighting coefficients

*Resonance, Dissonance, and Indifference Functions*

R(ø1, ø2) = \|⟨ø1\|ø2⟩\|\^2 / (\|\|ø1\|\| · \|\|ø2\|\|)

D(ø1, ø2) = 1 - \|⟨ø1\|ø2⟩\|\^2 / (\|\|ø1\|\| · \|\|ø2\|\|)

I(ø1, ø2) = exp(-\|ø1 - ø2\|\^2 / ó\^2)

where ⟨·\|·⟩ denotes the inner product and \|\|·\|\| the norm in the
intent pattern space.

*Propagation Speed in Media*

The speed of light v in a medium can be related to the indifference
function:

v = c · I(ølight, ømedium)

where c is the speed of light in vacuum.

*Reflection and Transmission Coefficients*

For an interface between two media:

r = D(ø1, ø2) / (R(ø1, ø2) + D(ø1, ø2))

t = R(ø1, ø2) / (R(ø1, ø2) + D(ø1, ø2))

where r is the reflection coefficient and t is the transmission
coefficient.

* Absorption Coefficient*

The absorption coefficient ì can be related to the resonance function:

ì = k · R(ølight, ømedium)

where k is a proportionality constant.

*Emission Spectrum*

The emission spectrum E(ù) can be modeled as:

E(ù) ∝ \|⟨øfinal\|∇Ã\|øinitial⟩\|\^2 · ä(Efinal - Einitial - ℏù)

where øinitial and øfinal are the initial and final intent patterns, and
Ã is the interaction function.

* Tension Field Interaction*

The local variation in the tension field T(r) due to material
properties:

T(r) = T0(r) + ∫ Ã(ømaterial(r\'), øfield(r)) dr\'

where T0(r) is the background tension field.

This mathematical framework provides a foundation for quantitatively
analyzing various electromagnetic and material phenomena within the
Synchronism model, unifying concepts from optics, electromagnetism, and
material science under a single paradigm of intent pattern interactions.

### 

* Generalized Interaction Function*

We define a generalized interaction function Ã(ø1, ø2) between two
intent patterns ø1 and ø2:

Ã(ø1, ø2) = á·R(ø1, ø2) + â·D(ø1, ø2) + ã·I(ø1, ø2)

where:

\- R(ø1, ø2) is the resonance function

\- D(ø1, ø2) is the dissonance function

\- I(ø1, ø2) is the indifference function

\- á, â, ã are weighting coefficients

*Resonance, Dissonance, and Indifference Functions*

R(ø1, ø2) = \|⟨ø1\|ø2⟩\|\^2 / (\|\|ø1\|\| · \|\|ø2\|\|)

D(ø1, ø2) = 1 - \|⟨ø1\|ø2⟩\|\^2 / (\|\|ø1\|\| · \|\|ø2\|\|)

I(ø1, ø2) = exp(-\|ø1 - ø2\|\^2 / ó\^2)

where ⟨·\|·⟩ denotes the inner product and \|\|·\|\| the norm in the
intent pattern space.

*Maxwell\'s Equations in Synchronism*

We reinterpret Maxwell\'s equations in terms of intent fields associated
with electromagnetic phenomena:

1\. Gauss\'s Law for Electricity:

∇ · I_E = k_E ñ_intent

2\. Gauss\'s Law for Magnetism:

∇ · I_B = 0

3\. Faraday\'s Law of Induction:

∇ × I_E = - k_EB ∂I_B/∂t

4\. Ampère\'s Circuital Law:

∇ × I_B = k_BJ J_intent + k_BE ∂I_E/∂t

where:

\- I_E and I_B are intent fields associated with electric and magnetic
fields

\- ñ_intent is the density of intent associated with electric charge

\- J_intent is the flow of intent associated with electric current

\- k_E, k_EB, k_BJ, and k_BE are coupling constants

*Propagation in Media*

The speed of light v in a medium is related to the indifference
function:

v = c · I(ølight, ømedium)

where c is the speed of light in vacuum.

* Reflection and Transmission*

For an interface between two media:

r = D(ø1, ø2) / (R(ø1, ø2) + D(ø1, ø2))

t = R(ø1, ø2) / (R(ø1, ø2) + D(ø1, ø2))

where r is the reflection coefficient and t is the transmission
coefficient.

*Absorption and Emission*

The absorption coefficient ì is related to the resonance function:

ì = k · R(ølight, ømedium)

The emission spectrum E(ù) is modeled as:

E(ù) ∝ \|⟨øfinal\|∇Ã\|øinitial⟩\|\^2 · ä(Efinal - Einitial - ℏù)

*Tension Field Interaction*

The local variation in the tension field T(r) due to material
properties:

T(r) = T0(r) + ∫ Ã(ømaterial(r\'), øfield(r)) dr\'

where T0(r) is the background tension field.

*Energy in Electromagnetic Interactions*

The energy associated with electromagnetic interactions is defined as:

E(r, t) = Ó\|I_transfer(r, t)\| · Ät

where I_transfer(r, t) is the magnitude of intent transfer in a single
tick and Ät is the duration of a tick.

* Temperature and Phase Transitions*

Temperature is related to the average speed of intent transfer:

T(r, t) = k_T · \<v_intent(r, t)\>

The critical temperature for phase transitions:

T_crit = (ℏ/k_B) \* ù_intent

where ù_intent is the characteristic frequency of intent patterns in the
system.

*Coherence in Biological and Cognitive Systems*

The biological coherence function:

C_bio(r, t, T) = exp(-\|ø_life(r, t, T) - ø_equilibrium\|\^2 / ó\^2)

The cognitive decoherence rate:

ë_cognition = k_c \* T \* (ù_cognition / ù_intent)

The cognitive coherence function:

C_cog(r, t, T) = exp(-ë_cognition \* t) \* f(I_neural(r, t))

where f(I_neural) captures the coherence of neural intent patterns.

This integrated mathematical framework provides a comprehensive
treatment of permeability, electromagnetic phenomena, and related
concepts within the Synchronism model. It offers a foundation for
quantitative analysis and prediction of a wide range of physical
phenomena, from the behavior of light in different media to the
coherence of living systems.

### 

The interaction tensor Î is a 3-dimensional tensor that quantifies the
effects of interactions on entities in Synchronism. It captures the
impact of alignment, displacement, and alteration on an entity's intent
pattern.

The tensor Î can be derived from the fundamental principles of intent
transfer, coherence, and emergence in Synchronism:

**Î = C · I + F · Î + E · Î**

Where:

**- C** is the coherence matrix that governs the alignment of intent
patterns.

**- I** is the intent vector that represents the flow of intent between
entities.

**- F** is the feedback matrix that captures how interactions modify the
intent distribution over time.

**- E** is the emergence matrix that accounts for changes in structure
or coherence.

This formulation allows us to analyze how interactions alter the
coherence and structure of entities.