# Reinterpreting Chemical Reactions in Terms of Intent Transfer

Within Synchronism, chemical phenomena are not isolated events but
rather the result of continuous intent transfer and resonance across
different scales. The familiar concepts of reactivity, stability, and
catalysis can be directly tied to the alignment or misalignment of
intent patterns. For instance, a highly reactive substance can be seen
as one whose intent patterns easily resonate with those of other
substances, leading to frequent and dynamic exchanges of intent.
Conversely, a stable compound represents a configuration where the
intent patterns have achieved a state of resonance that resists
disruption.

In traditional chemistry, reactions such as acid-base interactions or
oxidation-reduction are explained through the transfer of electrons and
the breaking and forming of chemical bonds. Within the Synchronism
framework, these reactions can be reinterpreted as the transfer of
intent between atomic or molecular entities.

For instance, in an acid-base reaction, the transfer of a proton from
the acid to the base can be seen as a localized shift in the
distribution of intent, driven by the resonant frequencies of the
involved molecules. The stability of the resulting products is then a
reflection of the new coherence patterns established through this
transfer.

This reinterpretation also extends to catalysis, where a catalyst serves
to lower the energy barrier of a reaction. In Synchronism, this can be
understood as the catalyst facilitating a smoother transfer of intent
between reactants, effectively aligning their intent patterns to enhance
coherence and accelerate the reaction.

By viewing chemical processes through the lens of intent transfer and
resonance, Synchronism provides a deeper understanding of the underlying
mechanisms that drive chemical change, offering a complementary
perspective to conventional chemical theory.