# Velocity and Complexity:

In the Synchronism framework, the complexity function C(r,t) represents
the intricacy and interconnectedness of a pattern\'s internal structure.
This complexity can arise from various factors, such as the number of
constituent elements within the pattern, the degree of interdependence
between these elements, and the overall stability of the pattern\'s
internal dynamics.

For example, in a biological system, complexity might be influenced by
the number of interacting biochemical processes, the degree of
regulation and feedback among these processes, and the overall
resilience of the organism to external perturbations. In a physical
system, complexity could relate to the number of interacting particles,
the strength of their interactions, and the system\'s susceptibility to
external forces.

The complexity function thus quantifies how intricate and finely-tuned a
pattern is, which in turn affects its ability to maintain coherence
during high-velocity transitions. Higher complexity typically leads to a
lower probability of intact transition at relativistic speeds, as more
intricate systems are more susceptible to disruptions in their internal
coherence.

This interpretation allows Synchronism to account for the experienced
limitations of high-speed travel and the increased likelihood of
decoherence or destabilization in complex systems moving near the speed
of light.

For a proposed mathematical treatment of Time Dilation in Synchronism
refer to Appendix A.3 at the end of the document. Analysis is proposed
for:

-   Velocity and Complexity

-   Probability of Transition

-   Time Dilation Factor

-   Effective Frequency

-   Modified Updating Rule