# 11 Abstraction

Abstraction in the Synchronism model is a formalization of the Markov
relevancy horizon concept. Abstraction is the process of simplifying
complex systems by focusing on relevant details at a chosen scale while
representing lower and higher scales in forms meaningful to the chosen
scale of analysis. It allows for efficient modeling and understanding of
phenomena across different fractal levels. A proposed mathematical
treatment of abstraction can be found in Appendix A.5.

The necessity of abstraction at various scales is closely tied to the
concept of coherence, as discussed in Section 4.11. Abstraction ensures
that coherence is maintained even when simplifying complex systems.

### 

In Synchronism, interactions between entities can be classified as
resonant, dissonant, or indifferent. These interactions at one fractal
level give rise to the emergence of entities at the next fractal level
through coherence, which is a form of group resonance. To further
understand the impact of these interactions on entities, we propose
three broad classifications:

-   Alignment**: The entity\'s intent pattern remains substantially
    unchanged quantitatively and spatially, but its resonant timing is
    altered. The entity maintains full coherence. This type of
    interaction can be seen as a phase shift in the entity\'s intent
    pattern, where the overall structure remains intact, but its
    temporal alignment with other entities is adjusted.**

    -   Example**: A planet orbiting a star might experience minor
        gravitational shifts from nearby celestial bodies, causing a
        small change in its orbital timing, but without affecting its
        coherence or structure.**

```{=html}
<!-- -->
```
-   Displacement**: The entity's intent is substantially unchanged
    quantitatively, but its position and/or direction vector is altered
    for the entire pattern as a whole. The entity does not change in
    coherence. This type of interaction can be viewed as a spatial
    translation or rotation of the entity\'s intent pattern.**

    -   Example**: A comet\'s trajectory is altered as it passes near a
        massive planet. The comet\'s structure remains unchanged, but
        its position and path are displaced due to gravitational
        influence.**

```{=html}
<!-- -->
```
-   Alteration**: The interaction is significant enough that the
    quantity and coherence of the entity\'s intent is modified, either
    slightly or significantly, up to and including decoherence. This
    type of interaction can result in changes to the entity\'s
    structure, function, or even its existence.**

    -   Example**: A star collapsing into a black hole undergoes an
        extreme alteration where both the quantity and coherence of its
        intent drastically change, leading to a fundamentally different
        entity (a black hole) that primarily interacts
        gravitationally.**

An interaction may involve some degree of all three characteristics,
which can be represented as a 3-dimensional tensor. This tensor captures
the extent of alignment, displacement, and alteration experienced by an
entity due to an interaction.

#### Real-World Applications of Interaction Effects

These classifications can be applied to various physical and cosmic
phenomena:

-   **Phase Transitions**: At a molecular level, phase transitions such
    as melting or freezing can be viewed as alterations, where the
    coherence of atomic or molecular structures changes due to
    temperature variations.

-   **Cosmic Evolution**: The formation of galaxies or black holes could
    involve all three types of interactions---alignment within cosmic
    structures, displacement due to gravitational interactions, and
    alteration during high-energy events.

-   **Dark Matter and Black Holes**: Dark matter and black holes may
    interact with regular matter primarily through gravitational
    displacement. In Synchronism, these interactions could account for
    phenomena like gravitational lensing or the unexpected rotation
    curves of galaxies.

#### Entity Interactions and Spectral Existence

The concept of spectral existence (Section 4.10) is closely tied to
entity interactions. Entities that primarily experience resonant or
alignment interactions are likely to exhibit strong spectral existence,
meaning they persist coherently over time. On the other hand, entities
undergoing significant alteration, such as decoherence, may experience
diminished spectral existence.

-   **Example**: Dark matter entities, which interact indifferently with
    regular matter except through gravity, maintain their coherence in
    their own Markov Relevancy Horizon but exhibit weak spectral
    existence from the perspective of regular matter.

#### Mathematical Representation

To formalize these interaction effects, we can introduce a tensor
notation for representing the impact of interactions on entities. The
interaction tensor Î is a 3-dimensional tensor that describes the extent
of alignment, displacement, and alteration:

-   **Î1**: Represents the degree of alignment (temporal phase shifts).

-   **Î2**: Represents the degree of displacement (spatial translation
    or rotation).

-   **Î3**: Represents the degree of alteration (changes in coherence or
    quantity).

#### Potential for Future Research

Future research could explore how different types of interactions
influence the emergence and evolution of entities at various fractal
levels. Additionally, these concepts could be applied to deepen our
understanding of dark matter and dark energy, which might primarily
interact through alignment or displacement rather than direct resonance.