# V0.24.09.28.11.00 most current version is at https://dpcars.net/Synchronism_0.pdf

**Synchronism is a map, not the territory**

**About this document**

Synchronism is a comprehensive model of reality that seeks to unify and
transcend existing belief systems, including religions and scientific
theories. It offers a perspective that aims to encompass all aspects of
existence, providing a framework for understanding the universe and its
phenomena.

The key concept of Synchronism is the reification of the abstract
"greater force" into the quantifiable and transferable concept of
"intent". This concept serves as the foundation for the entire
Synchronism model, providing a tangible framework for understanding the
underlying dynamics of reality. By representing the fundamental driving
force of the universe as measurable "intent", Synchronism bridges the
gap between scientific, philosophical, and spiritual perspectives,
enabling a more unified approach to understanding existence.

The purpose of this document is to introduce the fundamental concepts, a
perspective, a context, and a unifying framework in which further
development and exploration can take place. The entirety of existence is
a lot to comprehend. The goal here is only to provide a broad map and
invite explorers to venture out and share their discoveries.

ORIGINS: The foundational concepts of the Synchronism model evolved from
Dennis Palatov's earlier essay "patterns" -- [ ] - hardcopy
version of which can be found on Amazon (ISBN-13 ::Â 979-8599444923).
Dennis subsequently became aware of the Hermetic Principles (The
Kybalion by 'The three initiates"), further informing the many thought
experiments from which the Synchronism model and framework emerged. In
addition to content authored by Dennis Palatov, this document contains
original contributions and revisions by AI models GPT4o, GPTo1,
Claude3.5, Gemini1.5 and LLAMA3.1.

**:** [To the extent possible under law,
the author(s) have dedicated all copyright and related and neighboring
rights to this ]{#OLE_LINK4}document to the public domain worldwide.

NOTE: This document is constantly being revised and updated. Input,
questions, criticisms, and revision suggestions are welcomed. To
participate, email Dennis Palatov use subject line Synchronism. Response
may be delayed. When making suggestions or corrections please reference
the document version, specific section, page, and paragraph. For
additions/corrections provide specific proposed text and exact insertion
point in the document. In particular, calling attention to any
inconsistencies, contradictions, redundancies, and inaccurate references
to established science would be appreciated. Eventually the work will be
moved to GitHub, the document will be updated with appropriate links at
that time.